From:	McMaster, Greg
Sent:	Friday, February 18, 2011 4:48 PM
To:	Ascough, Jim
Cc:	Edmunds, Debbie
Subject:	FW: Trip to Manhattan

Jimbo,

I had meant to forward this to you yesterday, but didn’t get to it.  It somewhat relates to Larry’s e-
mail to us today (that I haven’t really read yet).

G.

 
From: Larry Wagner [mailto:wagner@weru.ksu.edu]  
Sent: Wednesday, February 16, 2011 4:44 PM 
To: McMaster, Greg 
Cc: fredfox 
Subject: Re: Trip to Manhattan

For your info, here is the full agenda of what Mike Sporcic was interested in discussing 
with us and  
Seth Dabney (RUSLE2): 
 
        1. Develop a method to model the decomposition of at least three pools of biomass in the WEPS and 
RUSLE2 models, Standing residue (leaves and Stems, maybe reproductive parts for WEPS), Flat residue, 
(leaves and Stems, maybe reproductive parts for WEPS), and Dead roots.  Currently both models decay all 
residue at the same rate. 
        2. Root growth, in WEPS.  Currently we model root growth the same for all crops, as a percentage of 
the surface growth.  The EPIC version the we use is very simple.  We need better estimates of the root 
growth for the OM sub factor in the Soil Condition Index.  Currently WEPS will not match RUSLE2 
because the calculation of the 4 in root biomass is not the same.  One solution would be to just add the hard 
values from RUSLE2.  I would like to explore the possibility of improving the root growth in WEPS and 
then decide what to do with SCI.
        3. We may want to review the harvest indexes we use in both models to make sure we are current 
with the findings we are getting from the CEAP biomass project you are involved with.
 
LEW
 
 
On 2/16/2011 5:37 PM, Larry Wagner wrote: 
Greg,  
 
A few quick comments to your numbered items below.  
 
LEW  
 
On 2/16/2011 3:49 PM, McMaster, Greg wrote: 
Hi Larry,  
 
Sorry for the generally slow, or maybe no response to some of the last  
e-mails.  So a few very quick responses on all this.  
 
1) Thanks for your reply to the UPGM workplan.  In things like using XML  
file format, I knew what your response was going to be and had already  
been discussing this with Jim.  So, I think that is a given. 
Good.  Our programmer has been dealing with this from the FORTRAN perspective  
some and I think it will work out fine.  The only issue we are aware of is that some  
F90/95 compilers contain lots of bugs that affect the XML library package as it  
uses these "new" features extensively (but most old-school FORTRAN programmers  
don't use at all).  Using a compiler that works with the XML library (compiles the XML 
code)  
is the real solution here (and possibly bugging the compiler manufacturer to fix  
the specific bugs that cause the XML library to fail to compile or work correctly). 
2) Help on funding your student programmers:  Jim and I have been  
figuring out how to even bring this up with the Lajenator, knowing his  
knee-jerk reaction would be "NO, NO, NO".  So we have had different  
ideas such as talking with Jack Carlson (NRCS), but thinking this  
wouldn't probably work.  Then we had an idea, which included initially  
asking Laj, getting the "NO", but then we approach Will Blackburn for a  
combined (your unit and Jim/I) appeal to for help, that maybe we might  
have a chance for Will and Laj both to kick in at least some funds.  I  
will need to fill you in on a few behind the scene activities when we  
meet. 
There has been a change here since I last sent you that email.  NRCS (Mike Sporcic)  
has apparently found a different source of NRCS funds and the paperwork has been  
submitted to get funds to cover them for at least the remainder of this fiscal year.  
So, unless something keeps those funds from arriving, I should be ok for awhile.  
Next FY is an entirely different matter though.  We can discuss longer term funding  
issues when you get here.  

Good on our end, and bad on your end, Jim is already getting the funding  
for 1 student programmer (to replace the previous one), and likely is  
getting finding for another programmer for 2 years. At least one will be  
able to put most of their time on the UPGM project.  (In fairness to  
Laj, of what he knows of the programmers and assignment, he would say  
that he is sufficiently funding the work and is keeping it "within the  
Unit".) 
In the long run, it will work better to have the student programmers work with you  
there at Ft. Collins. 
3) Jim has been meaning for a couple of weeks to talk with Fred on a  
couple of specific model/coding issues with UPGM that relates to the  
project.  I'll keep on him, but the good news is that Jim, Debbie, and I  
have been putting in a lot more work into our end of UPGM, and making  
some good progress.  Especially for myself, I'm learning a lot and  
accumulating a lot of questions! 
Yes, If Jim has questions regarding coding of UPGM and the current WEPS crop  
growth model, he needs to touch base with Fred. 
4) Hotels: I've been meaning to book the rooms for Debbie and I (the  
Jimbo isn't coming), but wanted to called the Comfort Suites to see if  
they will reduce their government rates from $90 to $77 (the maximum  
allowed), with the rationale that if they are not full, isn't 2 booked  
rooms at a reduced rate better than nothing?  We'll see, otherwise it  
will be the Fairfield Inn. 
Hmm, I don't know what rate the guys from the Desert Research Institute got, but  
they were very happy with the accommodations.  They probably put more than one  
person in a room though as well.  I'm surprised that they have higher government  
rates than allowed by the government.  I guess they don't really want to accommodate  
us Feds. :-)  
 
Hmm, will it be possible for Jim to join us via a MyMeeting session or teleconference  
for part of our meeting, if we deem it to be very useful to get his direct input and insights  
on specific issues? 
5) And now to the travel dates:  Debbie and I had been planning on  
driving to Manhattan on Sunday, then start work Monday morning.  We  
would then leave by noon on Friday and get back to Fort Fun early  
evening.  So if you need a day that week, we could adjust to either  
driving on Monday or coming back on Thursday.  Just let me know real  
soon so we can reserve hotel rooms and get the official travel forms  
approved. 
OK.  I will let Mike know what your plans are.  I think that Mike's session will only be  
a half day and possibly Friday afternoon will work for him.  Also, since you will be here  
for most of the week, we can probably squeeze his session in sometime when we need  
a break from each other.  You might be interested in his issues (residue decomposition  
and compatibility between RUSLE2 and WEPS is one of them). 
That's what I can think of at the moment.  
 
G.  
 
 
-----Original Message-----  
From: Larry Wagner [mailto:wagner@weru.ksu.edu]  
Sent: Wednesday, February 16, 2011 1:46 PM  
To: McMaster, Greg  
Subject: Trip to Manhattan  
 
Greg,  
 
Just a followup to the phone message I left.  
 
Mike Sporcic is wanting to meet with Fred and I, possibly the week of  
March the 6th  
when you, Jim, etc. were to be coming down.  I don't want Mike to  
interfere with our  
time together, but didn't know your exact plans.  If you are traveling  
(driving) on Monday,  
for example, then Mike could possibly meet with us on that day, etc.  
 
So, let me know your actual plans for the meeting in Manhattan.  
 
Thanks,  
 
LEW 


-- 
Larry E. Wagner, Agricultural Engineer
USDA-ARS Engineering and Wind Erosion Research Unit
1515 College Ave.,  Manhattan, KS 66502
E-mail: larry.wagner@ars.usda.gov
Phone:(785)537-5544  Fax:(785)537-5507
URL: http://www.ars.usda.gov/npa/gmprc/eweru 
