From:	Larry Wagner <wagner@weru.ksu.edu>
Sent:	Friday, June 10, 2011 3:19 PM
To:	Ascough, Jim
Cc:	fredfox; Joseph Levin; McMaster, Greg; Edmunds, Debbie
Subject:	WEPS as one of possibly many UPGM test frameworks

Jim,

I wanted to follow up our discussion this morning in writing on why we envision WEPS being a good 
testbed for UPGM for the following reasons:

a)  It provides all the required "components" to test  a crop model, e.g. hydrology, evaporation, climate, 
soil, etc. and the tools to allow the inputs and many of the desired outputs to be readily accessed.

b)  WEPS already has two hydrology/evaporation components: original WEPS hydrology and the WEPP 
hydrology available which would allow one to evaluate their differences on UPGM performance.

c)  It gives WEPS developers an opportunity to work on incorporating a new plant growth component 
early in its development and make it easier and faster to release a version of WEPS with UPGM for NRCS 
use once it has matured sufficiently to benefit them/us.

d)  It will get you feedback on any WEPS related issues we have running UPGM within WEPS so that they 
can be addressed earlier in the UPGM development cycle.

e)  We envision having a commandline switch that could "turn on" the use of either the current WEPS 
plant growth model or UPGM or even both based upon the crop record provided in a management file.  
So, even for a single crop that has given us difficulties in simulating its growth nationwide, say wheat for 
example, then an UPGM wheat record could be specified for use in a WEPS management file and 
original WEPS crop records for all other crops.

This is how I see introducing UPGM to NRCS with WEPS.  As soon as it became useful for one or more 
crops (better growth characteristics than the original WEPS plant growth model), then it could be 
automatically "turned on" by introducing UPGM growth records for those crops.
There would be no requirement to re-populate the entire list of NRCS crops with UPGM growth records 
before effectively using UPGM.

f)  It does not restrict your development and/or testing under any other frameworks or models you 
choose or need for UPGM.  In fact, this will probably be required as WEPS is unlikely to be supporting 
"nutrients" and "nutrient cycling" in the foreseeable future.


I think this mostly covers what I have been thinking regarding UPGM and WEPS.

LEW

--
Larry E. Wagner, Agricultural Engineer
USDA-ARS Engineering and Wind Erosion Research Unit
1515 College Ave.,  Manhattan, KS 66502
E-mail: larry.wagner@ars.usda.gov
Phone:(785)537-5544  Fax:(785)537-5507
URL: http://www.ars.usda.gov/npa/gmprc/eweru


